# Deep-learning-Object-detection-using-Tensorflow-API
## Abstract
Efficient and accurate object detection has been an important topic in the advancement of computer vision systems. With the advent of deep learning techniques, the accuracy for object detection has increased drastically. The project aims to incorporate state-ofthe-art technique for object detection with the goal of achieving high accuracy with a real-time performance. A major challenge in many of the object detection systems is the dependency on other computer vision techniques for helping the deep learning based approach, which leads to slow and non-optimal performance. In this project, we use a completely deep learning based approach to solve the problem of object detection in an end-to-end fashion. The network is trained on the most challenging publicly available dataset (Microsoft COCO), on which a object detection challenge is conducted annually. The resulting system is fast and accurate, thus aiding those applications which require object detection.

The TensorFlow Models GitHub repository has a large variety of pre-trained models for various machine learning tasks, and one excellent resource is their object detection API. The object detection API helps us to train our own object detection model for a large variety of different applications. Whether you need a high-speed model to work on live stream high-frames-per-second (fps) applications or high-accuracy desktop models, the API helps us to train and export a model. Here we have used a pre-trained COCO dataset model named ’Faster R-CNN inception v2 COCO’ available in the GitHub repository and performed a fine tuning (retraining) of the model with our own dataset(RGUKT student ID cards) to perform real time object detection when the input is couple of images, video and a live webcam stream.
